After completing a **Discord** Voice chat with my comrades, *Caitlin Datu* and *Elijah Escondo*, I made promises and pulled on the reins of their trust in me to see this project through to its completion. This needed to succeed--anything less than that meant repeating another semester at least. I could not let that happen. 

During the voice chat we had, we decided on a litany of things, the foundation of what we hoped would make for SIMULAT. We agreed, each of us, to split the work so as to let certain members focus on specific components of the system in specialized work so as to keep from crossing each other during SIMULAT's development. 

This approach was largely accepted by the others despite some initial trepidation on my part. I supposed that I couldn't help it. I needed to show confidence in my approach and be more present as a leader, grip the reins tighter, let the others feel that strength. If there was one thing, one single thing that I could criticize myself for as a leader, it is my tendency for my attention to wane and my focus to grow dim at an unfortunate time. I made a silent promise to myself to keep myself from that and help my group through the challenges ahead. 

Since the last semester, I'd been facing stress as a leader of that year's THESIS subject group. The vanity and pride with which I carried myself in *Research Methods* class in *First Semester* were cracked by the time that that single character displayed on my screen at THESIS 1's end. It didn't quite hit me that moment, when our group's grade was revealed to be 'C'. Short for 'Continuing' it meant that until we could get the signed approval of the Thesis Defense Panel before a given deadline, we would be put through the hassle of having to wait to get it all together in the weeks ahead. 

Caitlin, whom I had known for several semesters as a dedicated and talented young woman, didn't deserve that. She didn't deserve to have her inter-semester vacation to be held up in stress and anxiety. She was responsible for carrying out the most important tasks of writing the Thesis Proposal and I will be ever grateful to her for that. I consider her to be the most studious of all those I've grouped with and easily the most approachable with reading tasks.   

I met Elijah last semester when Caitlin introduced him to me. He was a student her specialization, Cyber Security, seeking a group to to join with for his THESIS project. I was prepared to get through this subject with Caitlin and take up the extra work of development after our previous third member, *Rosanne Erpelo*, dropped out to pursue Nursing in the United States. We were both ready to take on that challenge, but when Elijah came along I felt a pang of excitement mixed with relief; we would be one person less doomed this coming Thesis subject. He turned out quite the talented member of the group, able to take on writing and research tasks with dedication and even surprising speed on some days. 

That was all in the past though. By the time I wrote this, it was Sunday of the first week of the Thesis subject. I made a commitment to myself that I would push myself and my comrades to spend more of that vital resource, Time, earlier on. Caitlin was beat me to the punch in that regard and was there before the first week, ready to set herself to work. There are still challenges and questions ahead. Today's voice chat resolved a few of them for now, and put to the side the rest of them. Our other classmates were in the same boat and are in a position to help when things get harsh.

I trust at least that much.

I could not have been more proud and privileged to have these as my friends, classmates, and colleagues in this fight. 